---
permalink: "testimonials/canon-usa.html"
layout: sidebar
title: Canon USA
section: testimonials
published: true
tags: [Electronics and Industrial Equipment, Manufacturing, Virginia]
---


## New Canon Headquarters Established in Melville, Long Island, NY

Canon USA, Inc. constructed a new Americas Headquarters in Melville, Long Island, NY. Canon [broke ground on the new location](http://www.usa.canon.com/cusa/about_canon/newsroom/press_releases?pageKeyCode=pressreldetail&amp;docId=0901e0248015d53d) in March 2010 and [opened its doors](http://www.usa.canon.com/cusa/about_canon/standard_display/newamericashq) in February 2013. The new facility serves as Canon’s third worldwide headquarters location, along with headquarters in Tokyo and London. Aiming to be "<span>a model for environmental stewardship and innovation," the Melville headquarters is</span>&nbsp;<span>the largest commercial property on Long Island to achieve&nbsp;LEED Gold Certification Standards.</span>

> **“Over the past 40 years, Canon U.S.A. has developed strong roots in the Long Island community…Canon is very grateful for the support we have received from every level of government and the local community to bring this new, state-of-the-art facility from concept to reality. We are committed to continuing our role as an active member of the Long Island business and local community and will look forward to moving into our new home in Melville.”**
>
> _- Joe Adachi, President &amp; CEO, Canon U.S.A._

The headquarters created over 2,000 immediate and future job opportunities.&nbsp;


## Canon USA Opens&nbsp;New Manufacturing&nbsp;Facility in Virginia

The new Canon USA, Inc. headquarters followed close on the heels of [a new production facility constructed in Newport News, Virginia](http://www.cvi.canon.com/About_Us/aboutUsLandingPage.shtml) in May 2009. The facility manufactures cartridges for laser printers that incorporate Canon’s proprietary high-speed, automated technology for cartridge production and supplies the North American market. Canon expected close to 1,000 new jobs to be created as production expands at the new 700,000-square-foot facility.

Canon has also developed a Technical Training Academy on the Newport News campus, which will equip workers with skills in advanced manufacturing support and product repair operations. The company chose to expand in Virginia and the United States because of its support as Canon hires quickly and develops a highly skilled and technical workforce. 

> **“Our relationships with the state, local officials and community have been invaluable. Their support and involvement with our company has enabled us to grow and continually meet changing market demand.”**
> 
> _- Takayoshi Hanagata, President and CEO of Canon Virginia and Industrial Resource Technologies, Inc._ 
   
