---
permalink: "investment-incentives/market-development-cooperator-program.html"
layout: default
title: Market Development Cooperator Program
published: true
---

<H2><STRONG>Department of the Commerce </strong></h2>
<P><STRONG>International Trading Administration </strong></p>
<P><STRONG>Incentive:</strong> Market Development Cooperator Program (MDCP) awards include financial and technical assistance from the International Trade Administration (ITA) to support projects that enhance the global competitiveness of U.S. industries. An MDCP award establishes a partnership between ITA and non-profit industry groups such as trade associations and chambers of commerce. Such groups are particularly effective in reaching small- and medium-size enterprises. The non-profit groups compete for a limited number of MDCP awards by proposing innovative projects that enhance their industry's competitive position. Industry groups pledge to pay a minimum of two-thirds of the project cost and to sustain the project after the MDCP award period ends. On average, projects generate $124 in exports for every $1 of MDCP awards made.</p>
<P><STRONG>Award:</strong> Individual award limit of $300,000. </p>
<P>Funds may be expended over the period of time required to complete a project, but the period cannot exceed three years. </p>
<P>The principal measurement of competitiveness enhancement is exports generated by MDCP project activity. </p>
<P><STRONG>Eligibility:</strong> Trade Groups, Trade Associations, Chambers of Commerce</p>
<P><STRONG>Information:</strong>&nbsp;For more information about the MDCP Program, visit: <A href="http://www.ita.doc.gov/td/mdcp/">http://www.ita.doc.gov/td/mdcp/</a></p>