---
permalink: "investment-incentives/employment-training-administration-grants.html"
layout: default
title: Employment & Training Administration Grants
published: true
---

<P>Department of Labor</p>
<P>Department of Labor Employment and Training Program compiles a list of current fisical year grants for training and employment. </p>
<P>Examples include:<BR />- Pay for Success Pilot Projects - SGA-DFA-PY-11-13 <BR />The Employment and Training Administration (ETA), U.S. Department of Labor, announces the availability of approximately $20 million in Pay for Success grants, funded out of the Workforce Innovation Fund in the Department of Labor Appropriations Act, 2012 (P.L. 112-74, Div. F, Tit. I). The Workforce Innovation Fund supports innovative approaches to the design and delivery of employment and training services that generate long-term improvements in the performance of the public workforce system, both in terms of positive results for job seekers and employers and cost-effectiveness. Grants awarded under this Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGA) will fund pilots of a Pay for Success model, an innovative funding strategy for achieving specific social service outcomes. </p>
<P>- Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional Occupations (WANTO) - SGA-DFA-PY-11-10 <BR />The U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration (ETA), announces the availability of approximately $1,800,000 in grant funds authorized under the WANTO Act of 1992 to award six consortia made up of a community-based organization (CBO), a Local Workforce Investment Area (LWIA) established under the Workforce Investment Act and a registered apprenticeship program (RAP) sponsor. Each consortium will conduct innovative projects to improve outreach, recruitment, hiring, training, employment, and retention of women in apprenticeships in the nontraditional occupations. Each consortium must consist of a minimum of three components: 1) a CBO (which may be a faith-based organization) that has demonstrated experience in providing women with job-training services; 2) a LWIA (which includes a representative of the local government responsible for administering workforce programs under WIA or Workforce Investment Board); and (3) a RAP sponsor (which can be an individual employer, association of employers, or an apprenticeship committee which includes joint and non-joint committees designated by the sponsor to administer and operate an apprenticeship program and in whose name the apprenticeship program is registered or approved). It is anticipated that awards will be in the amount of up to $300,000 over the two-year grant period.</p>
<P>For a complete list of available grants, please visit: <A href="http://www.doleta.gov/grants/find_grants.cfm">http://www.doleta.gov/grants/find_grants.cfm</a></p> 